59942 Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 167 / Wednesday, August 30, 2023 / Notices 
1 Generative AI technologies produce outputs 
based on ‘‘learning’’ statistical patterns in existing 
Labor, 200 Constitution Ave. NW, Room 
S–3323, Washington, DC 20210. 
• Electronic submission: You may 
submit comments and attachments 
electronically at http://
www.regulations.gov. Follow the online 
instructions for submitting comments. 
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT : 
Anjanette Suggs, Office of Workers’ 
Compensation Programs, Division of 
Federal Employees Longshore, and 
Harbor Workers’ Compensation, OWCP/ 
DFELHWC, at suggs.anjanette@dol.gov 
(email); (202) 354–9660. 
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: 
I. Background 
The Office of Workers’ Compensation 
Programs (OWCP) is the agency 
responsible for administration of the 
Longshore and Harbor Workers’ 
Compensation Act (LHWCA), and the 
Federal Employees’ Compensation Act 
(FECA). 33 U.S.C. 939 (LHWCA) and 5 
U.S.C. 8104 and 8111 (FECA) authorizes 
OWCP to pay for approved vocational 
rehabilitation services to eligible 
workers with work-related disabilities. 
In order to decide whether to approve 
a rehabilitation plan, OWCP must 
receive a copy of the plan, supporting 
vocational testing materials and the 
estimated cost to implement the plan, 
broken down to show the fees, supplies, 
tuition and worker maintenance 
payments that are contemplated. OWCP 
also must receive the signatures of the 
worker and the rehabilitation counselor 
to show that the worker agrees to follow 
the proposed plan, and that the 
proposed plan is appropriate. Form 
OWCP–16 is the standard format for the 
collection of this information. The 
regulations implementing these statutes 
allow for the collection of information 
needed for OWCP to determine if a 
rehabilitation plan should be approved 
and payment of any related expenses 
should be authorized. (LHWCA, 702.506 
and 702.507, (FECA, 20 CFR 10.518, 
10.519) 
II. Desired Focus of Comments 
OWCP is soliciting comments 
concerning the proposed information 
collection (ICR) titled, ‘‘Rehabilitation 
Plan and Award’’, OWCP–16. OWCP/ 
DFELHWC is particularly interested in 
comments that: 
• Evaluate whether the collection of 
information is necessary for the proper 
performance of the functions of the 
Agency, including whether the 
information has practical utility; 
• Evaluate the accuracy of OWCP/ 
DFELHWC’s estimate of the burden 
related to the information collection, 
including the validity of the 
methodology and assumptions used in 
the estimate; 
• Suggest methods to enhance the 
quality, utility, and clarity of the 
information to be collected; and 
• Minimize the burden of the 
information collection on those who are 
to respond, including through the use of 
appropriate automated, electronic, 
mechanical, or other technological 
collection techniques or other forms of 
information technology, e.g., permitting 
electronic submission of responses. 
Background documents related to this 
information collection request are 
available at https://regulations.gov and 
at DOL–OWCP/DFELHWC located at 
200 Constitution Avenue NW, Room S– 
3323, Washington, DC 20210. Questions 
about the information collection 
requirements may be directed to the 
person listed in the 
FOR FURTHER 
INFORMATION section of this notice. 
III. Current Actions 
This information collection request 
concerns the Rehabilitation Plan and 
Award, OWCP–16. OWCP/DFELHWC 
has updated the data with respect to the 
number of respondents, responses, 
burden hours, and burden costs 
supporting this information collection 
request from the previous information 
collection request. 
Type of Review: Extension, without 
change, of a currently approved 
collection. 
Agency: Office of Workers’ 
Compensation Programs, Division of 
Federal Employees’ Longshore, and 
Harbor Workers’ Compensation, OWCP/ 
DFELHWC. 
OMB Number: 1240–0045. 
Affected Public: Not-for-profit 
institutions, Businesses or other for- 
profits. 
Number of Respondents: 3,413. 
Frequency: On occasion. 
Number of Responses: 3,413. 
Annual Burden Hours: 1,707 hours. 
Total Respondent or Recordkeeper 
Cost: $0. 
OWCP Form 16, Rehabilitation Plan 
and Award. 
Comments submitted in response to 
this notice will be summarized in the 
request for Office of Management and 
Budget approval of the proposed 
information collection request; they will 
become a matter of public record and 
will be available at https://
www.reginfo.gov. 
Anjanette Suggs, 
Certifying Officer. 
[FR Doc. 2023–18668 Filed 8–29–23; 8:45 am] 
BILLING CODE 4510–CH–P 
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 
Copyright Office 
[Docket No. 2023–6] 
Artificial Intelligence and Copyright 
AGENCY: U.S. Copyright Office, Library 
of Congress. 
ACTION: Notice of inquiry and request for 
comments. 
SUMMARY: The United States Copyright 
Office is undertaking a study of the 
copyright law and policy issues raised 
by artificial intelligence (‘‘AI’’) systems. 
To inform the Office’s study and help 
assess whether legislative or regulatory 
steps in this area are warranted, the 
Office seeks comment on these issues, 
including those involved in the use of 
copyrighted works to train AI models, 
the appropriate levels of transparency 
and disclosure with respect to the use 
of copyrighted works, and the legal 
status of AI-generated outputs. 
DATES: Written comments are due no 
later than 11:59 p.m. Eastern Time on 
Wednesday, October 18, 2023. Written 
reply comments are due no later than 
11:59 p.m. Eastern Time on Wednesday, 
November 15, 2023. 
ADDRESSES: For reasons of governmental 
efficiency, the Copyright Office is using 
the regulations.gov system for the 
submission and posting of public 
comments in this proceeding. All 
comments should be submitted 
electronically through regulations.gov. 
Specific instructions for submitting 
comments are available on the 
Copyright Office website at https://
copyright.gov/policy/artificial- 
intelligence. If electronic submission is 
not feasible, please contact the Office 
using the contact information below for 
special instructions. 
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT : 
Rhea Efthimiadis, Assistant to the 
General Counsel, by email at meft@
copyright.gov or telephone at 202–707– 
8350. 
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: 
I. Introduction 
Over the last year, artificial 
intelligence (‘‘AI’’) systems and the 
rapid growth of their capabilities have 
attracted significant media and public 
attention. One type of AI, ‘‘generative 
AI’’ technology, is capable of producing 
outputs such as text, images, video, or 
audio (including emulating a human 
voice) that would be considered 
copyrightable if created by a human 
author.
1 The adoption and use of 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 17:31 Aug 29, 2023 Jkt 259001 PO 00000 Frm 00079 Fmt 4703 Sfmt 4703 E:\FR\FM\30AUN1.SGM 30AUN1lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with NOTICES1
59943 Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 167 / Wednesday, August 30, 2023 / Notices 
data, which may include copyrighted works. Kim 
Martineau, What is generative AI?, IBM Research 
Blog (Apr. 20, 2023), https://research.ibm.com/ 
blog/what-is-generative-AI (‘‘At a high level, 
generative models encode a simplified 
representation of their training data and draw from 
it to create a new work that’s similar, but not 
identical, to the original data.’’). The Office has 
defined ‘‘generative AI’’ and other key terms in a 
glossary at the end of this Notice. 
2 See, e,g., Microsoft FY23 Second Quarter 
Earnings Conference Call Transcript, Microsoft (Jan. 
24, 2023), https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/ 
Investor/events/FY-2023/earnings-fy-2023-q2.aspx 
(Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella stating that ‘‘[m]ore 
than one million people have used Copilot to 
date’’); Krystal Hu, ChatGPT sets record for fastest- 
growing user base—analyst note, Reuters (Feb. 2, 
2023), https://www.reuters.com/technology/chatgpt- 
sets-record-fastest-growing-user-base-analyst-note- 
2023-02-01/. 
3 See, e.g., James Vincent, The scary truth about 
AI copyright is nobody knows what will happen 
next, The Verge (Nov. 15, 2022), https://
www.theverge.com/23444685/generative-ai- 
copyright-infringement-legal-fair-use-training-data 
(discussing the ‘‘key [legal] questions from which 
the topic’s many uncertainties unfold’’); see Kevin 
Roose & Cade Metz, How to Become an Expert on 
A.I., N.Y. Times (Apr. 4, 2023), https://
www.nytimes.com/article/ai-artificial-intelligence- 
chatbot.html; Kim Martineau, What is generative 
AI?, IBM Research Blog (Apr. 20, 2023), https://
research.ibm.com/blog/what-is-generative-AI; 
Harvard Online, The Benefits and Limitations of 
Generative AI: Harvard Experts Answer Your 
Questions, Harvard Online Blog (Apr. 19, 2023), 
https://www.harvardonline.harvard.edu/blog/ 
benefits-limitations-generative-ai; Arhan Islam, A 
History of Generative AI: From GAN to GPT–4, 
Marktechpost (Mar. 21, 2023), https://
www.marktechpost.com/2023/03/21/a-history-of- 
generative-ai-from-gan-to-gpt-4/. Generative AI is 
also a point of contention in the labor disputes 
between the Alliance of Motion Picture and 
Television Producers and both the Writers Guild of 
America and SAG–AFTRA (the guild representing 
actors and other media professionals). See Andrew 
Webster, Actors say Hollywood studios want their 
AI replicas—for free, forever, The Verge (July 13, 
2023), https://www.theverge.com/2023/7/13/ 
23794224/sag-aftra-actors-strike-ai-image-rights. 
4 See U.S. Copyright Office Review Board, 
Decision Affirming Refusal of Registration of A 
Recent Entrance to Paradise at 2 (Feb. 14, 2022), 
https://www.copyright.gov/rulings-filings/review- 
board/docs/a-recent-entrance-to-paradise.pdf 
(noting visual work was submitted listing the 
author as the ‘‘Creativity Machine’’). 
5 See, e.g., Am. Compl. ¶¶ 8, 61, Getty Images 
(US), Inc. v. Stability AI, Inc., No. 1:23–cv–135, ECF 
No. 13 (D. Del. Mar. 29, 2023) (alleging 
infringement based on use of copyrighted images to 
train a generative AI model and on the possibility 
of that model generating images ‘‘highly similar to 
and derivative of’’ copyrighted images). 
6 U.S. Copyright Office, Sixty-Eighth Annual 
Report of the Register of Copyrights for the Fiscal 
Year Ending June 30, 1965, at 5 (1966), https://
www.copyright.gov/reports/annual/archive/ar- 
1965.pdf. 
7 Id. 
8 U.S. Copyright Office, Annual Report of the 
Examining Division, Copyright Office, for the Fiscal 
Year 1965, at 4 (1965), https://copyright.gov/ 
reports/annual/archive/ar-examining1965.pdf. 
9 Id. 
10 CONTU was created ‘‘to assist the President 
and Congress in developing a national policy for 
both protecting the rights of copyright owners and 
ensuring public access to copyrighted works when 
they are used in computer and machine duplication 
systems.’’ CONTU, Final Report of the National 
Commission on New Technological Uses of 
Copyrighted Works at 3 (July 31, 1978) (‘‘CONTU 
Final Report’’) One of its statutory mandates was to 
study ‘‘the creation of new works by the application 
or intervention of [ ] automatic systems or machine 
reproduction.’’ National Commission on New 
Technological Uses of Copyrighted Works, Public 
Law 93–573, sec. 201(b)(2), 88 Stat. 1873 (1974). 
11 CONTU Final Report at 44–46 (recommending 
the same ‘‘approach [that] is followed by the 
Copyright Office today in conducting examinations 
for determining registrability for copyright of works 
created with the assistance of computers’’). 
12 Id. at 44. 
13 See U.S. Copyright Office, 94th Annual Report 
of the Register of Copyrights for the Fiscal Year 
Ending September 30, 1991, at 2 (1991), https://
copyright.gov/reports/annual/archive/ar-1991.pdf. 
14 See Copyright in the Age of Artificial 
Intelligence, U.S. Copyright Office (Feb. 5, 2020), 
https://www.copyright.gov/events/artificial- 
intelligence/. 
15 See Copyright law and machine learning for AI: 
Where are we and where are we going?, U.S. Patent 
and Trademark Office (Oct. 26, 2021), https://
www.uspto.gov/about-us/events/copyright-law-and- 
machine-learning-ai-where-are-we-and-where-are- 
we-going. The Office also supported the U.S. Patent 
and Trademark Office when it solicited public 
comments on the impact of AI on intellectual 
property policy, including copyright. See U.S. 
Patent and Trademark Office, Public Views on 
Artificial Intelligence and Intellectual Property 
Policy (Oct. 2020), https://www.uspto.gov/sites/ 
default/files/documents/USPTO_AI-Report_2020- 
10-07.pdf. 
16 U.S. Copyright Office Review Board, Decision 
Affirming Refusal of Registration of A Recent 
Entrance to Paradise at 2 (Feb. 14, 2022), https:// 
www.copyright.gov/rulings-filings/review-board/ 
docs/a-recent-entrance-to-paradise.pdf. 
generative AI systems by millions of 
Americans 2—and the resulting volume 
of AI-generated material—have sparked 
widespread public debate about what 
these systems may mean for the future 
of creative industries and raise 
significant questions for the copyright 
system.
3 
Some of these questions relate to the 
scope and level of human authorship, if 
any, in copyright claims for material 
produced in whole or in part by 
generative AI. Over the past several 
years, the Office has begun to receive 
applications to register works 
containing AI-generated material, some 
of which name AI systems as an author 
or co-author.
4 At the same time, 
copyright owners have brought 
infringement claims against AI 
companies based on the training process 
for, and outputs derived from, 
generative AI systems.
5 As concerns and 
uncertainties mount, Congress and the 
Copyright Office have been contacted by 
many stakeholders with diverse views. 
The Office has publicly announced a 
broad initiative earlier this year to 
explore these issues. This Notice is part 
of that initiative and builds on the 
Office’s research, expertise, and prior 
work, as well as information that 
stakeholders have provided to the 
Office. 
II. The Copyright Office’s Past Work on 
Machine Learning and AI 
The Copyright Office has long been 
engaged in questions involving machine 
learning and copyright. In 1965, the 
Office’s annual report noted that 
developments in computer technology 
had begun to raise ‘‘difficult questions 
of authorship’’—namely the question of 
the authorship of works ‘‘‘written’ by 
computers.’’
6 As the then-Register of 
Copyrights observed: 
The crucial question appears to be whether 
the ‘‘work’’ is basically one of human 
authorship, with the computer merely being 
an assisting instrument, or whether the 
traditional elements of authorship in the 
work (literary, artistic, or musical expression 
or elements of selection, arrangement, etc.) 
were actually conceived and executed not by 
man but by a machine.
7 
Because the answer depends on the 
circumstances of a work’s creation, the 
head of the Office’s Examining Division 
(and future Register) Barbara Ringer 
warned that the Office could not ‘‘take 
the categorical position that registration 
will be denied merely because a 
computer may have been used in some 
manner in creating the work.’’
8 As she 
noted, ‘‘a typewriter is a machine that 
is used in the creation of a manuscript[,] 
but this does not result in the 
manuscript being uncopyrightable.’’
9 
This view was echoed a decade later by 
the National Commission on New 
Technological Uses of Copyrighted 
Works (‘‘CONTU’’),
10 which agreed with 
the Office 11 but declined to discuss the 
issue in depth because ‘‘[t]he 
development of this capacity for 
‘artificial intelligence’ has not yet come 
to pass, and, indeed, it has been 
suggested to this Commission that such 
a development is too speculative to 
consider at this time.’’
12 In the 
intervening years, as AI moved out of 
the realm of speculation, the Office 
continued to participate in discussions 
on AI issues, from a 1991 conference 
hosted by the World Intellectual 
Property Organization (‘‘WIPO’’)
13 to 
more recent events the Office co-hosted 
with WIPO
14 and with the U.S. Patent 
and Trademark Office.15 
Last year, in two separate copyright 
registration matters, the Office publicly 
addressed the question of copyright in 
AI-generated material. In the first 
instance, the Office refused to register a 
claim for two-dimensional artwork 
described as ‘‘autonomously created by 
a computer algorithm running on a 
machine.’’
16 The Office’s Review 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 17:31 Aug 29, 2023 Jkt 259001 PO 00000 Frm 00080 Fmt 4703 Sfmt 4703 E:\FR\FM\30AUN1.SGM 30AUN1lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with NOTICES1
59944 Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 167 / Wednesday, August 30, 2023 / Notices 
17 The Review Board is a three-member body that 
hears administrative appeals of copyright 
registration decisions. Review Board decisions 
constitute final agency actions and are subject to 
judicial review. See 37 CFR 202.5(f), (g). 
18 U.S. Copyright Office Review Board, Decision 
Affirming Refusal of Registration of A Recent 
Entrance to Paradise at 3 (Feb. 14, 2022), https:// 
www.copyright.gov/rulings-filings/review-board/ 
docs/a-recent-entrance-to-paradise.pdf. 
19 Mem. Op., Thaler v. Perlmutter, No. 22–cv– 
1564, ECF No. 24 (D.D.C. Aug. 18, 2023). 
20 U.S. Copyright Office, Cancellation Decision re: 
Zarya of the Dawn (VAu001480196) at 1 (Feb. 21, 
2023), https://www.copyright.gov/docs/zarya-of-the- 
dawn.pdf (letter from the Office to applicant 
canceling the original certificate and issuing a new 
one covering only the expressive material created 
by the applicant). 
21 Id. at 9. 
22 In addition to registration, the Office has 
considered AI in the regulatory context of the 
section 1201 rulemaking. Section 1201 of the 
Copyright Act sets up a triennial proceeding to 
address possible exceptions to a statutory ban on 
circumventing technological protection measures 
that control access to copyrighted works. See 17 
U.S.C. 1201(a)(1)(C) (charging Register of 
Copyrights with making recommendation as to 
whether particular users of copyrighted works are 
adversely affected in ability to engage in 
noninfringing uses). In the most recent proceeding, 
the Register was asked to consider text and data 
mining activities as part of this analysis, and she 
concluded that existing copyright case law did not 
support the conclusion that all such activity is fair 
use. The Register did, however, recommend 
granting a narrow exemption after concluding that 
the specific use as described was likely to be fair 
because it was limited to a ‘‘researcher or group of 
researchers seeking to investigate a particular set of 
questions that require examination of a large 
number of works;’’ access to the works in full 
would be limited to researchers solely for purposes 
of verifying research results; and the researchers 
would not use the works ‘‘for their expressive 
purposes.’’ U.S. Copyright Office, Section 1201 
Rulemaking: Eighth Triennial Proceeding to 
Determine Exemptions to the Prohibition on 
Circumvention, Recommendation of the Register of 
Copyrights 107–13 (Oct. 2021). 
23 See Letter from Sen. Chris Coons, Chair, and 
Sen. Thom Tillis, Ranking Member, Subcomm. on 
Intell. Prop. of the S. Comm. on the Judiciary, to 
Kathi Vidal, Under Secretary of Commerce for 
Intell. Prop. and Director, U.S. Patent and 
Trademark Office, and Shira Perlmutter, Register of 
Copyrights, U.S. Copyright Office (Oct. 27, 2022) 
and Letter from Kathi Vidal, Under Secretary of 
Commerce for Intell. Prop. and Director, U.S. Patent 
and Trademark Office, and Shira Perlmutter, 
Register of Copyrights, to Sen. Chris Coons, Chair, 
and Sen. Thom Tillis, Ranking Member, Subcomm. 
on Intell. Prop. of the S. Comm. on the Judiciary 
(Dec. 12, 2022), https://www.copyright.gov/laws/ 
hearings/Letter-to-USPTO-USCO-on-National- 
Commission-on-AI-1.pdf (Senate letter requesting 
the Office to provide guidance on what the law 
around generative AI should be in the future and 
the Office’s response explaining that it intended, 
among other things, to issue a notice of inquiry on 
questions involving copyright and AI). 
24 See, e.g., Virtual AI Townhall hosted by Karla 
Ortiz featuring the U.S. Copyright Office, Concept 
Art Ass’n (Nov. 2, 2022), https://
www.conceptartassociation.com/calendar/virtual- 
ai-townhall-featuring-us-copyright-office (event that 
featured two senior attorneys from the Office). 
25 Copyright Office Launches New Artificial 
Intelligence Initiative, U.S. Copyright Office (Mar. 
16, 2023), https://www.copyright.gov/newsnet/ 
2023/1004.html. 
26 Copyright Registration Guidance: Works 
Containing Materials Generated by Artificial 
Intelligence, 88 FR 16190 (Mar. 16, 2023). A copy 
of the guidance is available at https://copyright.gov/ 
ai/ai_policy_guidance.pdf. 
27 Id. at 16191. 
28 Id. at 16192. 
29 Id. at 16193. 
30 Spring 2023 AI Listening Sessions, U.S. 
Copyright Office, https://www.copyright.gov/ai/ 
listening-sessions.html. 
31 The transcript and recording of the registration 
webinar are available at https://www.copyright.gov/ 
events/ai-application-process/. In the coming 
months, the Office intends to provide further 
guidance to copyright applicants seeking to register 
works containing AI-generated material. 
Board 17 explained that the work could 
not be registered because it was made 
‘‘without any creative input or 
intervention from a human author,’’ and 
that ‘‘statutory text, judicial precedent, 
and longstanding Copyright Office 
practice’’ all require human authorship 
as a condition of copyrightability.
18 The 
Office’s registration denial, as well as 
the supporting legal analysis, was 
recently affirmed in federal district 
court.
19 
A second registration application, 
submitted in 2022, involved a work 
containing both human authorship and 
generative AI material. The work was a 
graphic novel with text written by the 
human applicant and illustrations 
created through the use of Midjourney, 
a generative AI system. After soliciting 
information from the applicant about 
the process of the work’s creation, the 
Office determined that copyright 
protected both the human-authored text 
and human selection and arrangement 
of the text and images, but not the AI- 
generated images themselves.
20 The 
Office explained that where a human 
author lacks sufficient creative control 
over the AI-generated components of a 
work, the human is not the ‘‘author’’ of 
those components for copyright 
purposes.
21 The Office continues to 
receive applications to register works 
incorporating AI-generated material, 
involving different levels of human 
contributions.
22 
III. The Office’s AI Initiative 
In response to growing 
Congressional 23 and public interest,24 
the Office launched a comprehensive AI 
Initiative in early 2023. The Initiative 
identified a number of steps that the 
Office would take to further explore the 
copyright policy questions surrounding 
AI, including hosting public listening 
sessions and publishing a notice of 
inquiry.
25 At the same time, the Office 
created a website, www.copyright.gov/ 
ai, to provide information about the 
Initiative, including planned events and 
opportunities for public engagement. 
a. March 2023 Registration Guidance 
At the outset of the Initiative, the 
Office issued a statement of policy 
providing registration guidance on 
works containing AI-generated material 
(‘‘AI Registration Guidance’’).
26 The AI 
Registration Guidance reiterated the 
principle that copyright protection in 
the United States requires human 
authorship. Under well-established case 
law, the Guidance explained, ‘‘the term 
‘author,’ used in both the Constitution 
and the Copyright Act, excludes non- 
humans.’’
27 In the context of generative 
AI, this means that ‘‘[i]f a work’s 
traditional elements of authorship were 
produced by a machine, the work lacks 
human authorship and the Office will 
not register it.’’
28 The Guidance 
instructed applicants seeking to register 
works containing more than de minimis 
AI-generated material to disclose that 
the work contains such material and 
provide a brief explanation of the 
human author’s contributions.
29 
b. Public Listening Sessions 
In April and May 2023, the Office 
held four public listening sessions to 
gather input on the copyright issues 
raised by generative AI. Each session 
focused on a different category of 
creative work: literary works, including 
print journalism and software; works of 
visual art; audiovisual works, including 
video games; and musical works and 
sound recordings. Over the four 
listening sessions, nearly 90 participants 
representing individual artists, 
academic experts, legal practitioners, 
technology companies, and industry 
associations shared their views with the 
Office. Transcripts, videos recordings, 
and agendas for each session are 
available on the Office’s website.
30 
c. Educational Webinars 
In June and July 2023, the Office held 
two public webinars on generative AI, 
each of which drew an audience of 
nearly 2,000. The first webinar focused 
on registration of works containing AI- 
generated material. It included an 
overview of the Office’s general rules on 
how to register works containing 
material created or owned by someone 
other than the applicant, followed by 
examples illustrating how those rules 
apply to works that incorporate AI- 
generated material.
31 The second 
webinar convened experts on different 
regions of the world to discuss 
international developments in 
generative AI and copyright law. These 
experts discussed how other countries 
are addressing copyright issues, 
including authorship, training, and 
exceptions and limitations. They 
provided an overview of legislative 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 17:31 Aug 29, 2023 Jkt 259001 PO 00000 Frm 00081 Fmt 4703 Sfmt 4703 E:\FR\FM\30AUN1.SGM 30AUN1lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with NOTICES1
59945 Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 167 / Wednesday, August 30, 2023 / Notices 
32 The transcript and recording of the 
international webinar are available at https://
www.copyright.gov/events/international-ai- 
copyright-webinar/. 
33 Additionally, the Office has offered guidance to 
The Mechanical Licensing Collective (‘‘The MLC’’), 
explaining that AI-generated music is not eligible 
for the statutory mechanical blanket license in 
section 115 of the Copyright Act and that The MLC 
should not disburse royalties for such musical 
works. See Letter from Suzanne V. Wilson, General 
Counsel and Associate Register of Copyrights, U.S. 
Copyright Office, to Kris Ahrend, Chief Exec. 
Officer, The MLC, at 2–3 (Apr. 20, 2023), https:// 
www.copyright.gov/ai/USCO-Guidance-Letter-to- 
The-MLC-Letter-on-AI-Created-Works.pdf. 
34 In some cases, a non-generative AI model may 
be trained on copyrighted material. In other cases, 
the same AI model may be capable of being 
deployed in both a generative AI system and a non- 
generative one. The Office’s consideration of 
training is framed broadly in order to encompass 
these and other situations. 
35 See Mem. Op., Thaler v. Perlmutter, No. 22– 
cv–1564, ECF No. 24 (D.D.C. Aug. 18, 2023) 
(affirming the Office’s registration denial of AI- 
generated work). 
36 For example, the Office has received questions 
about how to apply its guidance that applicants 
disclose more than de minimis amounts of AI- 
generated material in their works. See AI 
Registration Guidance, 88 FR at 16193 (explaining 
that ‘‘AI-generated content that is more than de 
minimis should be explicitly excluded from the 
application’’). 
37 Some of these questions are currently before 
the courts in lawsuits that have already been filed 
over generative AI systems. See, e.g., J.L. v. 
Alphabet Inc., 3:23–cv–03340 (N.D. Cal.); Kadrey v. 
Meta Platforms, Inc., 3:23–cv–3417 (N.D. Cal.); 
Silverman v. OpenAI, Inc., 4:23–cv–3416 (N.D. 
Cal.); Tremblay v. OpenAI, Inc., 3:23–cv–3223 (N.D. 
Cal.); Getty Images (US), Inc. v. Stability AI, Inc., 
1:23–cv–0135 (D. Del.); Andersen v. Stability AI 
Ltd., 3:23–cv–0201 (N.D. Cal.); Doe v. GitHub, Inc., 
4:22–cv–6823 (N.D. Cal.). 
38 See U.S. Copyright Office, Authors, Attribution, 
and Integrity: Examining Moral Rights in the United 
States 112–116 (Apr. 2019), https://
www.copyright.gov/policy/moralrights/full- 
report.pdf (discussing how such interests are 
generally protected under state right of publicity 
laws). 
39 17 U.S.C. 701(b)(1), (b)(4). 
developments and highlighted possible 
areas of convergence and divergence.32 
d. Engagement With Stakeholders 
In addition to the public events 
described above, the Office has spoken 
with a broad spectrum of stakeholders, 
participating in dozens of meetings with 
academics, trade groups, individual 
creators, technology companies, and 
creative industries.
33 These meetings 
have provided valuable information on 
the technical aspects of generative AI 
models and systems, how creators are 
using generative AI, and the continuing 
questions copyright applicants have 
about registering works that include AI- 
generated material. 
IV. The Current Inquiry 
Drawing on our prior AI Initiative 
work, including discussions with 
stakeholders, the Office has identified a 
wide range of copyright policy issues 
arising from the development and use of 
AI. These relate to: (1) the use of 
copyrighted works to train AI models; 
(2) the copyrightability of material 
generated using AI systems; (3) potential 
liability for infringing works generated 
using AI systems; and (4) the treatment 
of generative AI outputs that imitate the 
identity or style of human artists. The 
Office seeks public comments on these 
and related issues. 
As to the first issue, the Office is 
aware that there is disagreement about 
whether or when the use of copyrighted 
works to develop datasets for training AI 
models (in both generative and non- 
generative systems) is infringing.
34 This 
Notice seeks information about the 
collection and curation of AI datasets, 
how those datasets are used to train AI 
models, the sources of materials 
ingested into training, and whether 
permission by and/or compensation for 
copyright owners is or should be 
required when their works are included. 
To the extent that commenters believe 
such permission and/or compensation is 
necessary, the Office seeks their views 
on what kind of remuneration system(s) 
might be feasible and effective. The 
Office also seeks information regarding 
the retention of records necessary to 
identify underlying training materials 
and the availability of this information 
to copyright owners and others. 
On the second issue, the Office seeks 
comment on the proper scope of 
copyright protection for material created 
using generative AI. Although we 
believe the law is clear that copyright 
protection in the United States is 
limited to works of human authorship,
35 
questions remain about where and how 
to draw the line between human 
creation and AI-generated content. For 
example, are there circumstances where 
a human’s use of a generative AI system 
could involve sufficient control over the 
technology, such as through the 
selection of training materials and 
multiple iterations of instructions 
(‘‘prompts’’), to result in output that is 
human-authored? Resolution of this 
question will affect future registration 
decisions. While the Office is separately 
working to update its registration 
guidance on works that include AI- 
generated material,
36 this Notice 
explores the broader policy questions 
related to copyrightability. 
On the third question, the Office is 
interested in how copyright liability 
principles could apply to material 
created by generative AI systems.
37 For 
example, if an output is found to be 
substantially similar to a copyrighted 
work that was part of the training 
dataset, and the use does not qualify as 
fair, how should liability be apportioned 
between the user whose instructions 
prompted the output and developers of 
the system and dataset? 
Lastly, in both our listening sessions 
and other outreach, the Office heard 
from artists and performers concerned 
about generative AI systems’ ability to 
mimic their voices, likenesses, or styles. 
Although these personal attributes are 
not generally protected by copyright 
law, their copying may implicate 
varying state rights of publicity and 
unfair competition law, as well as have 
relevance to various international treaty 
obligations.
38 
V. Overview of Notice 
The purpose of this Notice is to 
collect factual information and views 
relevant to the copyright law and policy 
issues raised by recent advances in 
generative AI. The Office undertakes 
this study pursuant to its statutory 
mandate in title 17 to ‘‘[c]onduct 
studies’’ and ‘‘[a]dvise Congress on 
national and international issues 
relating to copyright, other matters 
arising under this title, and related 
matters.’’
39 It intends to use this 
information to advise Congress by 
providing analyses of the current state 
of the law, identifying unresolved 
issues, and evaluating potential areas for 
congressional action. The Office will 
also use this record to inform its 
regulatory work and to offer information 
and resources to the public, courts, and 
other government entities considering 
these issues. 
The questions are grouped into 
several categories. This Notice begins 
with several general high-level 
questions and then inquires about AI 
training, including questions of 
transparency and accountability; 
generative AI outputs, including 
questions of copyrightability, 
infringement, and labeling or 
identification of such outputs; and other 
issues related to copyright. Because of 
the importance of using shared language 
in discussing these issues, the questions 
are followed by a glossary of key terms 
for the purposes of this Notice. The 
Office welcomes input from 
commenters on the definitions. 
VI. Instructions and Questions 
The Office does not expect that every 
party choosing to respond to this Notice 
will address every question raised 
below. The questions are designed to 
gather views from a broad range of 
parties. The Office does request that, 
when responding to a question, 
commenters clearly identify each 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 17:31 Aug 29, 2023 Jkt 259001 PO 00000 Frm 00082 Fmt 4703 Sfmt 4703 E:\FR\FM\30AUN1.SGM 30AUN1lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with NOTICES1
59946 Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 167 / Wednesday, August 30, 2023 / Notices 
40 For example, several jurisdictions have 
adopted copyright exceptions for text and data 
mining that could permit use of copyrighted 
material to train AI systems. Separately, the 
European Parliament passed its version of the 
Artificial Intelligence Act on June 14, 2023, which 
includes a requirement that providers of generative 
AI systems publish ‘‘a sufficiently detailed 
summary of the use of training data protected under 
copyright law.’’ See Artificial Intelligence Act, 
amend. 399, art. 28b(4)(c), EUR. PARL. DOC. P9_
TA (2023)0236 (2023), https://www.europarl.
europa.eu/doceo/document/TA-9-2023-0236_
EN.html. 
41 141 S. Ct. 1183 (2021). 
42 143 S. Ct. 1258 (2023). 
43 See Pre-training, Fine-tuning, and Foundation 
Models, GenLaw: Glossary (June 1, 2023), https://
genlaw.github.io/glossary.html (explaining that pre- 
training is a relatively slow and expensive process 
that ‘‘results in a general-purpose or foundation 
model’’ whereas fine-tuning ‘‘adapts a pretrained 
model checkpoint to perform a desired task using 
additional data’’). 
44 For example, the generative AI model, Stable 
Diffusion, was reportedly developed in part by 
researchers at the Ludwig Maximilian University of 
Munich but is used by the for-profit company 
Stability AI. See Kenrick Cai, Startup Behind AI 
Image Generator Stable Diffusion Is In Talks To 
Raise At A Valuation Up To $1 Billion, Forbes 
(Sept. 7, 2022), https://www.forbes.com/sites/ 
kenrickcai/2022/09/07/stability-ai-funding-round-1- 
billion-valuation-stable-diffusion-text-to-image/ 
?sh=31e11f5a24d6. 
45 17 U.S.C. 107(1). 
question for which they submit a 
response, address questions separately, 
and provide the factual, legal, or policy 
basis for their responses. Commenters 
should make clear whether they are 
submitting in a personal capacity or on 
behalf of an organization or entity they 
are authorized to represent. Commenters 
are particularly encouraged to explain 
any technical understandings that 
inform their legal and policy 
viewpoints, as well as whether their 
answers are applicable only to certain 
industries, technologies, or types of 
copyrighted works. Although some 
questions seek technical information 
about generative AI systems, 
commenters do not need to be affiliated 
with a technical entity to answer these 
questions. 
General Questions 
The Office has several general 
questions about generative AI in 
addition to the specific topics listed 
below. Commenters are encouraged to 
raise any positions or views that are not 
elicited by the more detailed questions 
further below. 
1. As described above, generative AI 
systems have the ability to produce 
material that would be copyrightable if 
it were created by a human author. 
What are your views on the potential 
benefits and risks of this technology? 
How is the use of this technology 
currently affecting or likely to affect 
creators, copyright owners, technology 
developers, researchers, and the public? 
2. Does the increasing use or 
distribution of AI-generated material 
raise any unique issues for your sector 
or industry as compared to other 
copyright stakeholders? 
3. Please identify any papers or 
studies that you believe are relevant to 
this Notice. These may address, for 
example, the economic effects of 
generative AI on the creative industries 
or how different licensing regimes do or 
could operate to remunerate copyright 
owners and/or creators for the use of 
their works in training AI models. The 
Office requests that commenters provide 
a hyperlink to the identified papers. 
4. Are there any statutory or 
regulatory approaches that have been 
adopted or are under consideration in 
other countries that relate to copyright 
and AI that should be considered or 
avoided in the United States?
40 How 
important a factor is international 
consistency in this area across borders? 
5. Is new legislation warranted to 
address copyright or related issues with 
generative AI? If so, what should it 
entail? Specific proposals and 
legislative text are not necessary, but the 
Office welcomes any proposals or text 
for review. 
Training 
If your comment applies only to a 
specific subset of AI technologies, 
please make that clear. 
6. What kinds of copyright-protected 
training materials are used to train AI 
models, and how are those materials 
collected and curated? 
6.1. How or where do developers of 
AI models acquire the materials or 
datasets that their models are trained 
on? To what extent is training material 
first collected by third-party entities 
(such as academic researchers or private 
companies)? 
6.2. To what extent are copyrighted 
works licensed from copyright owners 
for use as training materials? To your 
knowledge, what licensing models are 
currently being offered and used? 
6.3. To what extent is non- 
copyrighted material (such as public 
domain works) used for AI training? 
Alternatively, to what extent is training 
material created or commissioned by 
developers of AI models? 
6.4. Are some or all training materials 
retained by developers of AI models 
after training is complete, and for what 
purpose(s)? Please describe any relevant 
storage and retention practices. 
7. To the extent that it informs your 
views, please briefly describe your 
personal knowledge of the process by 
which AI models are trained. The Office 
is particularly interested in: 
7.1. How are training materials used 
and/or reproduced when training an AI 
model? Please include your 
understanding of the nature and 
duration of any reproduction of works 
that occur during the training process, 
as well as your views on the extent to 
which these activities implicate the 
exclusive rights of copyright owners. 
7.2. How are inferences gained from 
the training process stored or 
represented within an AI model? 
7.3. Is it possible for an AI model to 
‘‘unlearn’’ inferences it gained from 
training on a particular piece of training 
material? If so, is it economically 
feasible? In addition to retraining a 
model, are there other ways to 
‘‘unlearn’’ inferences from training? 
7.4. Absent access to the underlying 
dataset, is it possible to identify whether 
an AI model was trained on a particular 
piece of training material? 
8. Under what circumstances would 
the unauthorized use of copyrighted 
works to train AI models constitute fair 
use? Please discuss any case law you 
believe relevant to this question. 
8.1. In light of the Supreme Court’s 
recent decisions in Google v. Oracle 
America
41 and Andy Warhol 
Foundation v. Goldsmith,42 how should 
the ‘‘purpose and character’’ of the use 
of copyrighted works to train an AI 
model be evaluated? What is the 
relevant use to be analyzed? Do different 
stages of training, such as pre-training 
and fine-tuning,
43 raise different 
considerations under the first fair use 
factor? 
8.2. How should the analysis apply to 
entities that collect and distribute 
copyrighted material for training but 
may not themselves engage in the 
training? 
8.3. The use of copyrighted materials 
in a training dataset or to train 
generative AI models may be done for 
noncommercial or research purposes.
44 
How should the fair use analysis apply 
if AI models or datasets are later 
adapted for use of a commercial 
nature?
45 Does it make a difference if 
funding for these noncommercial or 
research uses is provided by for-profit 
developers of AI systems? 
8.4. What quantity of training 
materials do developers of generative AI 
models use for training? Does the 
volume of material used to train an AI 
model affect the fair use analysis? If so, 
how? 
8.5. Under the fourth factor of the fair 
use analysis, how should the effect on 
the potential market for or value of a 
copyrighted work used to train an AI 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 17:31 Aug 29, 2023 Jkt 259001 PO 00000 Frm 00083 Fmt 4703 Sfmt 4703 E:\FR\FM\30AUN1.SGM 30AUN1lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with NOTICES1
59947 Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 167 / Wednesday, August 30, 2023 / Notices 
46 Id. at 107(4). 
47 For example, the European Union’s Directive 
on Copyright in the Digital Single Market provides 
for two copyright exceptions or limitations for text 
and data mining (which may be used in the training 
of generative AI systems): one for purposes of 
scientific research and one for any other purpose. 
The latter is available only to the extent that 
rightsholders have not expressly reserved their 
rights to the use of their works in text and data 
mining. See Directive 2019/790 of the European 
Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2019 on 
copyright and related rights in the Digital Single 
Market and amending Directives 96/9/EC and 2001/ 
29/EC, 2019 O.J. (L 130), https://eur-lex.europa.eu/ 
eli/dir/2019/790/oj. 
48 For example, some AI companies have 
reportedly started to allow copyright owners to tag 
their works as not available for AI training. See 
Emilia David, Now you can block OpenAI’s web 
crawler, The Verge (Aug. 7, 2023), https://
www.theverge.com/2023/8/7/23823046/openai- 
data-scrape-block-ai; Melissa Heikkila¨, Artists can 
now opt out of the next version of Stable Diffusion, 
MIT Tech. Review (Dec. 16, 2022), https://
www.technologyreview.com/2022/12/16/1065247/ 
artists-can-now-opt-out-of-the-next-version-of- 
stable-diffusion/. 
49 Collective licensing is one alternative to a 
direct licensing regime, in which copyright owners 
negotiate and enter into private agreements on an 
individual basis. Under a collective licensing 
arrangement, rights are aggregated and administered 
by a management organization. The management 
organization negotiates the terms of use and 
distributes payment to participating copyright 
owners. See WIPO, WIPO Good Practice Toolkit for 
CMOs at 6 (2021), https://www.wipo.int/ 
publications/en/details.jsp?id=4561. 
50 A compulsory or ‘‘statutory’’ license allows for 
certain uses of a copyrighted work ‘‘without the 
consent of the copyright owner provided that the 
person adhered to the provisions of the license, 
most notably paying a statutorily established 
royalty to the copyright owner.’’ Music Licensing 
Reform: Hearing Before the Subcomm. on Intell. 
Prop. of the S. Comm. on the Judiciary, 109th Cong. 
(2005) (statement of Marybeth Peters, Register of 
Copyrights), http://copyright.gov/docs/ 
regstat071205.html. 
51 ‘‘An Extended Collective Licensing scheme is 
one where a relevant licensing body, subject to 
certain safeguards, is authori[z]ed to license 
specified copyright works on behalf of all rights 
holders in its sector (including non-members), and 
not just members who have given specific 
permission for it to act.’’ Extended Collective 
Licensing (ECL) scheme definition, LexisNexis 
Glossary (2023), https://www.lexisnexis.co.uk/legal/ 
glossary/extended-collective-licensing-ecl-scheme; 
see also Letter from Karyn A. Temple, Acting 
Register of Copyrights, U.S. Copyright Office, to 
Rep. Robert Goodlatte, Chair, and Rep. John 
Conyers, Ranking Member, H. Comm. on the 
Judiciary (Sept. 29, 2017), https://
www.copyright.gov/policy/massdigitization/house- 
letter.pdf; Letter from Karyn A. Temple, Acting 
Register of Copyrights, U.S. Copyright Office, to 
Sen. Charles Grassley, Chair, and Sen. Dianne 
Feinstein, Ranking Member, S. Comm. on the 
Judiciary (Sept. 29, 2017), https://
www.copyright.gov/policy/massdigitization/senate- 
letter.pdf. 
model be measured? 46 Should the 
inquiry be whether the outputs of the AI 
system incorporating the model 
compete with a particular copyrighted 
work, the body of works of the same 
author, or the market for that general 
class of works? 
9. Should copyright owners have to 
affirmatively consent (opt in) to the use 
of their works for training materials, or 
should they be provided with the means 
to object (opt out)? 
9.1. Should consent of the copyright 
owner be required for all uses of 
copyrighted works to train AI models or 
only commercial uses?
47 
9.2. If an ‘‘opt out’’ approach were 
adopted, how would that process work 
for a copyright owner who objected to 
the use of their works for training? Are 
there technical tools that might facilitate 
this process, such as a technical flag or 
metadata indicating that an automated 
service should not collect and store a 
work for AI training uses?
48 
9.3. What legal, technical, or practical 
obstacles are there to establishing or 
using such a process? Given the volume 
of works used in training, is it feasible 
to get consent in advance from 
copyright owners? 
9.4. If an objection is not honored, 
what remedies should be available? Are 
existing remedies for infringement 
appropriate or should there be a 
separate cause of action? 
9.5. In cases where the human creator 
does not own the copyright—for 
example, because they have assigned it 
or because the work was made for hire— 
should they have a right to object to an 
AI model being trained on their work? 
If so, how would such a system work? 
10. If copyright owners’ consent is 
required to train generative AI models, 
how can or should licenses be obtained? 
10.1. Is direct voluntary licensing 
feasible in some or all creative sectors? 
10.2. Is a voluntary collective 
licensing scheme a feasible or desirable 
approach?
49 Are there existing 
collective management organizations 
that are well-suited to provide those 
licenses, and are there legal or other 
impediments that would prevent those 
organizations from performing this role? 
Should Congress consider statutory or 
other changes, such as an antitrust 
exception, to facilitate negotiation of 
collective licenses? 
10.3. Should Congress consider 
establishing a compulsory licensing 
regime?
50 If so, what should such a 
regime look like? What activities should 
the license cover, what works would be 
subject to the license, and would 
copyright owners have the ability to opt 
out? How should royalty rates and terms 
be set, allocated, reported and 
distributed? 
10.4. Is an extended collective 
licensing scheme
51 a feasible or 
desirable approach? 
10.5. Should licensing regimes vary 
based on the type of work at issue? 
11. What legal, technical or practical 
issues might there be with respect to 
obtaining appropriate licenses for 
training? Who, if anyone, should be 
responsible for securing them (for 
example when the curator of a training 
dataset, the developer who trains an AI 
model, and the company employing that 
model in an AI system are different 
entities and may have different 
commercial or noncommercial roles)? 
12. Is it possible or feasible to identify 
the degree to which a particular work 
contributes to a particular output from 
a generative AI system? Please explain. 
13. What would be the economic 
impacts of a licensing requirement on 
the development and adoption of 
generative AI systems? 
14. Please describe any other factors 
you believe are relevant with respect to 
potential copyright liability for training 
AI models. 
Transparency & Recordkeeping 
15. In order to allow copyright owners 
to determine whether their works have 
been used, should developers of AI 
models be required to collect, retain, 
and disclose records regarding the 
materials used to train their models? 
Should creators of training datasets have 
a similar obligation? 
15.1. What level of specificity should 
be required? 
15.2. To whom should disclosures be 
made? 
15.3. What obligations, if any, should 
be placed on developers of AI systems 
that incorporate models from third 
parties? 
15.4. What would be the cost or other 
impact of such a recordkeeping system 
for developers of AI models or systems, 
creators, consumers, or other relevant 
parties? 
16. What obligations, if any, should 
there be to notify copyright owners that 
their works have been used to train an 
AI model? 
17. Outside of copyright law, are there 
existing U.S. laws that could require 
developers of AI models or systems to 
retain or disclose records about the 
materials they used for training? 
Generative AI Outputs 
If your comment applies only to a 
particular subset of generative AI 
technologies, please make that clear. 
Copyrightability 
18. Under copyright law, are there 
circumstances when a human using a 
generative AI system should be 
considered the ‘‘author’’ of material 
produced by the system? If so, what 
factors are relevant to that 
determination? For example, is selecting 
what material an AI model is trained on 
and/or providing an iterative series of 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 17:31 Aug 29, 2023 Jkt 259001 PO 00000 Frm 00084 Fmt 4703 Sfmt 4703 E:\FR\FM\30AUN1.SGM 30AUN1lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with NOTICES1
59948 Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 167 / Wednesday, August 30, 2023 / Notices 
52 U.S. Const. art. I, sec. 8, cl. 8. 
53 Some AI models are released by their 
developers for download and use by members of the 
general public. Such so-called ‘‘open-source’’ 
models may restrict how those models can be used 
through the terms of a licensing agreement. See, 
e.g., Llama 2 Community License Agreement, Meta 
AI (July 18, 2023), https://ai.meta.com/llama/ 
license/ (requiring users of Llama 2 AI model to 
include an attribution notice and excluding use in 
services with greater than 700 million monthly 
active users). 
54 Under 17 U.S.C. 114(b), the reproduction and 
derivative work rights for sound recordings ‘‘do not 
extend to the making or duplication of another 
sound recording that consists entirely of an 
independent fixation of other sounds, even though 
such sounds imitate or simulate those in the 
copyrighted sound recording.’’ 
55 See John S. McCain National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019, Public Law 
115–232, sec. 238(g)(2), 132 Stat. 1636, 1697–98 
(2018) (defining ‘‘artificial intelligence’’ to include 
systems ‘‘developed in computer software, physical 
hardware, or other context that solves tasks 
requiring human-like perception, cognition, 
planning, learning, communication, or physical 
action’’). 
56 See James M. Inhofe National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023, Public Law 
117–263, sec. 7223(4)(A), 136 Stat. 2395, 3669 
(2022) (defining ‘‘artificial intelligence system’’ as 
‘‘any data system, software, application, tool, or 
utility that operates in whole or in part using 
dynamic or static machine learning algorithms or 
other forms of artificial intelligence’’). 
text commands or prompts sufficient to 
claim authorship of the resulting 
output? 
19. Are any revisions to the Copyright 
Act necessary to clarify the human 
authorship requirement or to provide 
additional standards to determine when 
content including AI-generated material 
is subject to copyright protection? 
20. Is legal protection for AI-generated 
material desirable as a policy matter? Is 
legal protection for AI-generated 
material necessary to encourage 
development of generative AI 
technologies and systems? Does existing 
copyright protection for computer code 
that operates a generative AI system 
provide sufficient incentives? 
20.1. If you believe protection is 
desirable, should it be a form of 
copyright or a separate sui generis right? 
If the latter, in what respects should 
protection for AI-generated material 
differ from copyright? 
21. Does the Copyright Clause in the 
U.S. Constitution permit copyright 
protection for AI-generated material? 
Would such protection ‘‘promote the 
progress of science and useful arts’’?
52 
If so, how? 
Infringement 
22. Can AI-generated outputs 
implicate the exclusive rights of 
preexisting copyrighted works, such as 
the right of reproduction or the 
derivative work right? If so, in what 
circumstances? 
23. Is the substantial similarity test 
adequate to address claims of 
infringement based on outputs from a 
generative AI system, or is some other 
standard appropriate or necessary? 
24. How can copyright owners prove 
the element of copying (such as by 
demonstrating access to a copyrighted 
work) if the developer of the AI model 
does not maintain or make available 
records of what training material it 
used? Are existing civil discovery rules 
sufficient to address this situation? 
25. If AI-generated material is found 
to infringe a copyrighted work, who 
should be directly or secondarily 
liable—the developer of a generative AI 
model, the developer of the system 
incorporating that model, end users of 
the system, or other parties? 
25.1. Do ‘‘open-source’’ AI models 
raise unique considerations with respect 
to infringement based on their 
outputs?
53 
26. If a generative AI system is trained 
on copyrighted works containing 
copyright management information, 
how does 17 U.S.C. 1202(b) apply to the 
treatment of that information in outputs 
of the system? 
27. Please describe any other issues 
that you believe policymakers should 
consider with respect to potential 
copyright liability based on AI- 
generated output. 
Labeling or Identification 
28. Should the law require AI- 
generated material to be labeled or 
otherwise publicly identified as being 
generated by AI? If so, in what context 
should the requirement apply and how 
should it work? 
28.1. Who should be responsible for 
identifying a work as AI-generated? 
28.2. Are there technical or practical 
barriers to labeling or identification 
requirements? 
28.3. If a notification or labeling 
requirement is adopted, what should be 
the consequences of the failure to label 
a particular work or the removal of a 
label? 
29. What tools exist or are in 
development to identify AI-generated 
material, including by standard-setting 
bodies? How accurate are these tools? 
What are their limitations? 
Additional Questions About Issues 
Related to Copyright 
30. What legal rights, if any, currently 
apply to AI-generated material that 
features the name or likeness, including 
vocal likeness, of a particular person? 
31. Should Congress establish a new 
federal right, similar to state law rights 
of publicity, that would apply to AI- 
generated material? If so, should it 
preempt state laws or set a ceiling or 
floor for state law protections? What 
should be the contours of such a right? 
32. Are there or should there be 
protections against an AI system 
generating outputs that imitate the 
artistic style of a human creator (such as 
an AI system producing visual works 
‘‘in the style of’’ a specific artist)? Who 
should be eligible for such protection? 
What form should it take? 
33. With respect to sound recordings, 
how does section 114(b) of the 
Copyright Act relate to state law, such 
as state right of publicity laws?
54 Does 
this issue require legislative attention in 
the context of generative AI? 
34. Please identify any issues not 
mentioned above that the Copyright 
Office should consider in conducting 
this study. 
VII. Glossary of Key Terms 
The Office has included definitions of 
key terms as they are used in this Notice 
to clarify the technical processes 
involved in generative AI systems. The 
following definitions are used for 
purposes of this Notice only; they do 
not necessarily reflect the government’s 
legal position with respect to any 
particular term. 
Artificial Intelligence (AI): A general 
classification of automated systems 
designed to perform tasks typically 
associated with human intelligence or 
cognitive functions.
55 Generally, AI 
technologies may use different 
techniques to accomplish such tasks. 
This Notice uses the term ‘‘AI’’ in a 
more limited sense to refer to 
technologies that employ machine 
learning, a technique further defined 
below. 
AI Model: A combination of computer 
code and numerical values (or 
‘‘weights,’’ which is defined below) that 
is designed to accomplish a specified 
task. For example, an AI model may be 
designed to predict the next word or 
word fragment in a body of text. 
Examples of AI models include GPT–4, 
Stable Diffusion, and LLaMA. 
AI System: A software product or 
service that substantially incorporates 
one or more AI models and is designed 
for use by an end-user.
56 An AI system 
may be created by a developer of an AI 
model, or it may incorporate one or 
more AI models developed by third 
parties. 
Generative AI: An application of AI 
used to generate outputs in the form of 
expressive material such as text, images, 
audio, or video. Generative AI systems 
may take commands or instructions 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 17:31 Aug 29, 2023 Jkt 259001 PO 00000 Frm 00085 Fmt 4703 Sfmt 4703 E:\FR\FM\30AUN1.SGM 30AUN1lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with NOTICES1
59949 Federal Register / Vol. 88, No. 167 / Wednesday, August 30, 2023 / Notices 
57 See National Artificial Intelligence Initiative 
Act of 2020, 15 U.S.C. 9401(11). 
from a human user, which are 
sometimes called ‘‘prompts.’’ Examples 
of generative AI systems include 
Midjourney, OpenAI’s ChatGPT, and 
Google’s Bard. 
Machine Learning: A technique for 
building AI systems that is 
characterized by the ability to 
automatically learn and improve on the 
basis of data or experience, without 
relying on explicitly programmed 
rules.
57 Machine learning involves 
ingesting and analyzing materials such 
as quantitative data or text and obtain 
inferences about qualities of those 
materials and using those inferences to 
accomplish a specific task. These 
inferences are represented within an AI 
model’s weights. 
Training Datasets: A collection of 
training material (as defined below) that 
is compiled and curated for use in 
machine learning. Examples of training 
datasets include BookCorpus, ImageNet, 
and LAION. 
Training Material: Individual units of 
material that are used for purposes of 
training an AI model. They may include 
a combination of text, images, audio, or 
other categories of expressive material, 
as well as annotations describing the 
material. An example of training 
material would be an individual image 
and an associated text ‘‘label’’ that 
describes the image. 
Weights: A collection of numerical 
values that define the behavior of an AI 
model. Weights are stored within an AI 
model and reflect inferences from the 
training process. 
Dated: August 24, 2023. 
Suzanne V. Wilson, 
General Counsel and Associate Register of 
Copyrights. 
Maria Strong, 
Associate Register of Copyrights and Director 
of Policy and International Affairs. 
[FR Doc. 2023–18624 Filed 8–29–23; 8:45 am] 
BILLING CODE 1410–30–P 
NUCLEAR REGULATORY 
COMMISSION 
[NRC–2022–0212] 
Information Collection: NRC Form 5, 
Occupational Dose Record for a 
Monitoring Period 
AGENCY: Nuclear Regulatory 
Commission. 
ACTION: Renewal of existing information 
collection; request for comment. 
SUMMARY: The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory 
Commission (NRC) invites public 
comment on the renewal of Office of 
Management and Budget (OMB) 
approval for an existing collection of 
information. The information collection 
is entitled, ‘‘NRC Form 5, Occupational 
Dose Record for a Monitoring Period.’’ 
DATES: Submit comments by October 30, 
2023. Comments received after this date 
will be considered if it is practical to do 
so, but the Commission is able to ensure 
consideration only for comments 
received on or before this date. 
ADDRESSES: You may submit comments 
by any of the following methods; 
however, the NRC encourages electronic 
comment submission through the 
Federal rulemaking website: 
• Federal Rulemaking Website: Go to 
https://www.regulations.gov and search 
for Docket ID NRC–2022–0212. Address 
questions about Docket IDs in 
Regulations.gov to Stacy Schumann; 
telephone: 301–415–0624; email: 
Stacy.Schumann@nrc.gov. For technical 
questions, contact the individual(s) 
listed in the 
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION 
CONTACT section of this document. 
• Mail comments to: David C. 
Cullison, Office of the Chief Information 
Officer, Mail Stop: T–6 A10M, U.S. 
Nuclear Regulatory Commission, 
Washington, DC 20555–0001. 
For additional direction on obtaining 
information and submitting comments, 
see ‘‘Obtaining Information and 
Submitting Comments’’ in the 
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION section of 
this document. 
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT : 
David C. Cullison, Office of the Chief 
Information Officer, U.S. Nuclear 
Regulatory Commission, Washington, 
DC 20555–0001; telephone: 301–415– 
2084; email: Infocollects.Resource@
nrc.gov. 
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: 
I. Obtaining Information and 
Submitting Comments 
A. Obtaining Information 
Please refer to Docket ID NRC–2022– 
0212 when contacting the NRC about 
the availability of information for this 
action. You may obtain publicly 
available information related to this 
action by any of the following methods: 
• Federal Rulemaking Website: Go to 
https://www.regulations.gov and search 
for Docket ID NRC–2022–0212. 
• NRC’s Agencywide Documents 
Access and Management System 
(ADAMS): You may obtain publicly 
available documents online in the 
ADAMS Public Documents collection at 
https://www.nrc.gov/reading-rm/ 
adams.html. To begin the search, select 
‘‘Begin Web-based ADAMS Search.’’ For 
problems with ADAMS, please contact 
the NRC’s Public Document Room (PDR) 
reference staff at 1–800–397–4209, 301– 
415–4737, or by email to 
PDR.Resource@nrc.gov. The supporting 
statement and NRC Form 5 are available 
in ADAMS under Accession Nos. 
ML23082A250 and ML23082A254. 
• NRC’s PDR: The PDR, where you 
may examine and order copies of 
publicly available documents, is open 
by appointment. To make an 
appointment to visit the PDR, please 
send an email to PDR.Resource@nrc.gov 
or call 1–800–397–4209 or 301–415– 
4737, between 8 a.m. and 4 p.m. eastern 
time (ET), Monday through Friday, 
except Federal holidays. 
• NRC’s Clearance Officer: A copy of 
the collection of information and related 
instructions may be obtained without 
charge by contacting the NRC’s 
Clearance Officer, David C. Cullison, 
Office of the Chief Information Officer, 
U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, 
Washington, DC 20555–0001; telephone: 
301–415–2084; email: 
Infocollects.Resource@nrc.gov. 
B. Submitting Comments 
The NRC encourages electronic 
comment submission through the 
Federal rulemaking website (https://
www.regulations.gov). Please include 
Docket ID NRC–2022–0212, in your 
comment submission. 
The NRC cautions you not to include 
identifying or contact information in 
comment submissions that you do not 
want to be publicly disclosed in your 
comment submission. All comment 
submissions are posted at https://
www.regulations.gov and entered into 
ADAMS. Comment submissions are not 
routinely edited to remove identifying 
or contact information. 
If you are requesting or aggregating 
comments from other persons for 
submission to the NRC, then you should 
inform those persons not to include 
identifying or contact information that 
they do not want to be publicly 
disclosed in their comment submission. 
Your request should state that comment 
submissions are not routinely edited to 
remove such information before making 
the comment submissions available to 
the public or entering the comment into 
ADAMS. 
II. Background 
In accordance with the Paperwork 
Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 
Chapter 35), the NRC is requesting 
public comment on its intention to 
request the OMB’s approval for the 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 17:31 Aug 29, 2023 Jkt 259001 PO 00000 Frm 00086 Fmt 4703 Sfmt 4703 E:\FR\FM\30AUN1.SGM 30AUN1lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with NOTICES1